Team:
Bryan Cheng - bbch
Simon Zheng - szheng0

Original text:

Mit sechs Jahren beginnt für Kinder in Deutschland die Schule. 
Alle Kinder gehen zuerst vier Jahre lang gemeinsam auf die Grundschule. 
Danach trennen sich die Wege.

Ein Teil der Schüler und Schülerinnen geht dann auf die Hauptschule, die nach dem neunten oder zehnten Schuljahr mit dem Hauptschulabschluss endet. 
Danach suchen sich die meisten Schulabgänger eine Ausbildungsstelle für einen praktischen Beruf. 
Zweimal die Woche müssen die "Azubis" (Auszubildende oder Lehrlinge) auf die Berufsschule gehen. 
Dort lernen sie vor allem praktische Fächer für den künftigen Beruf.

Ein anderer Teil der Schüler und Schülerinnen geht von der Grundschule auf die Realschule. 
Sie endet nach dem zehnten Schuljahr mit dem Abschluss der Mittlerin Reife. 
Danach geht man auf eine Fachschule oder auch auf eine Berufsschule.

Als dritte Möglichkeit gibt es das Gymnasium, das auf ein Universitätsstudium vorbereitet.

Das Gymnasium umfasst acht Klassen. 
(Vor kurzem ist die Zeit auf dem Gymnasium von neun auf acht Jahre reduziert worden.) 
Am Ende des Gymnasiums machen Schüler das Abitur. 
Ohne Abitur (Hochschulreife) kann man nicht studieren.

Our MT text:



Manually translated text:

At six years old, children begin school in Germany. All children go to elementary school together for the first four years. Thereafter, they separate ways.

One portion of the pupils then goes to secondary school, which ends after the ninth or tenth school year with the certificate of secondary school education. After that, most of the students leave school to look for a training position in a practical profession. Two times a week, the "Azubis" (apprentices or apprentice) have to go to "Berufsschule" (trade school). There, above all, they learn practical subjects for their future jobs. 

A different part of the pupils go from the elementary school to junior high. It ends after the tenth year with the completion of the "middle maturation" [10th grade graduation]. After that, one goes to a technical school or to a vocational school.

As a third possibility, there is the grammar school, which prepares students for university study. The grammar school encompasses eight classes. (Recently, the time at the grammar school was reduced from nine years to eight years.) At the end of the grammar schools, pupils take an exit exam. Without the exit exam, they cannot go to a university.


Google's translated text:

With six years for children in Germany school starts.
All children go first four years together in elementary school.
Then their separate ways.

Part of the students then goes to the main school, which ends after the ninth or tenth grade-leaving certificate.
After that most school leavers looking for an apprenticeship a practical profession.
Twice a week, the "trainees" go (apprentices or trainees) to the vocational school.
There they learn mainly practical subjects for their future profession.

Another part of the students going from elementary school to junior high school.
It ends after the tenth school year with the completion of mediator production.
Then you go to a college or a vocational school.

The third option, there is the school that prepares for university studies.
The school has eight classes.
(Recently, the time in high school has been reduced from nine to eight years.)
At the end of the high school students take the baccalauréat.
Without Abitur (university entrance) can not study it.

General observations:

The F language you're working with and any general observations about it, including particular challenges in translating your choice of F language to English (relative to other possible choices for F).
We are translating from German to English.

One of the biggest problems we had was translating words that do not have an exact English translation. This included all the different types of schools and we were only able to generalize them to for example vocational school or trade school. EXPLAIN A LITTLE MORE ABOUT THIS?? There seems to be many such words like this which are really specific, yet can only be generalized into many words in the English language.

One option for this would be to try and flesh out a full definition for each word even though it will make the translated text much longer, but will be more clear and informative. Another choice could have been to leave the original word as is and hope the reader knows some information about the native German word.

Rules:
1)

2)

3)

4)

5)

6)

7)

8)

9)

10)

For each rule you create, a description of what it was supposed to do, what differences between Language F and English it was supposed to fix. Make sure you give a good example of the use of the rules in your running of your code.


Error analysis:
, including ideas for how additional work might fix your remaining errors.

Because German has a lot of subtleties, often times a word by word translation is not the best approach. I think even combining this with a bigram translation model would help some of the smaller issues lost by not having the context of each word.


Comparative analysis for Google Translate, including where your system and Google agree, what your system does better than Google Translate, and what Google Translate does better than your system.

It looks like one advantage of Google Translate is they take the context of a word before translating it. We were limited to translating word by word and lose some of this context. For example, by itself 'der' means 'the'. But in some contexts, like the Genitive tense, 'der' means 'of the'.

Google Translate also does a better job constructing the sentences to be more grammatically correct English sentences, adding, removing, and replacing words to make them closer to natural English. Because Google has extensive n-gram data models as wll as other models, they can use this to tweak the phrases in the sentences appropriately.


A brief statement on the responsibilities of different members of the team. (Team members will normally get the same grade, but we reserve the right to differentiate in egregious cases.)

Because Simon has some knowledge of German, he helped with manually translating the text. Since we were just translating word by word, both of us were able to input each word into a dictionary and get the first definition.

Simon wrote the code to read in our dictionary, perform the translation word for word, and then output this data. Bryan linked up the Stanford POS tagger and read in Simon's output, then produced another file with each words POS appended to each word.

For the transformations afterward, Simon knew more of the language so came up with some obvious rules. Bryan did most of the coding for these rules, and Simon spent time tweaking them.
